[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm radio and television
host Jimmy Church.
And I'm here to uncover
the truth about some
of life's biggest mysteries.
If this is revealed,
everything has to be rewritten.
My guest today is Micah
Hanks, editor-in-chief
of "The Debrief," where he
covers science, technology,
and futurism.
>> If I were ET, the last
thing I want to do is drop down
on the White House
lawn and say hi.
>> Technical assistant, Josh.
Josh, can you pull up the map?
>> Yeah.
>> Also joins us to
help set the scenes.
Join us as we deep-dive to
get to the bottom of some
of the most intriguing
questions of our time.
>> OK, guys.
We're not alone.
So what do we do now?
>> Welcome to "Into the Vortex."
I'm your host Jimmy Church.
And today Micah Hanks is
with us, editor-in-chief over
at "The Debrief."
And we're going to be
talking about UAPs.
Used to be UFOs.
Today it's UAPs in
the rest of the world.
And, Josh, are you
used to UAP yet?
>> I resisted for a while, but
I've come around, and now I am.
If you can't tell from this hat,
I'm really into your research,
sir.
And I'm excited for
this conversation.
>> Well, it's a good way to
remind yourself UAP and not
UFO.
But that's where we are today.
And, Micah, welcome.
Here's the deal with "The
Debrief" and its importance
to not only the community,
but people reference over
at "The Debrief."
You guys are quoted
and used a lot today.
Are you careful
about how you select
what you guys write about
because of its importance?
>> Oh, certainly.
I mean, you've got to always
think of yourself almost
like a steward because
looking at the possibilities,
Unidentified Aerial Phenomena,
the artists formerly known
as UFOs, to me, could be one of
the most important topics we'll
ever face as team
civilization, whether or not
they're necessarily
extraterrestrial technology.
So, I mean, for me,
I look at it like,
OK, this isn't
about what I write.
This isn't about what the
big names are talking about.
We have to look at
this in terms of what
it means to all of humanity.
And so when you report on it
at a site like "The Debrief,"
we've got to think about what
are the credible sources, what
are the major developments,
what is the importance
culturally in terms of
politics and government,
science, all those things.
But yeah, I mean, it's huge.
And as far as what you
call it, hey, listen,
they've been known for
a long time as UFOs.
I'm still cool with that.
But I think that, especially
the military going with UAP,
they're trying to kind of
lift those old stigmas.
Either or work for me
as long as we're all
talking about the same thing and
trying to move forward with it.
>> Well, back in
May of this year,
we had a hearing at
House of Representatives.
It was very important
that even the House
tried to continue with UFOs.
They called it themselves,
in social media,
"The UFO Hearing."
The two witnesses that were
brought forward would say UAP.
What effect does this
have on the public?
Do they want to hear UAP?
Or are we still calling
these things UFOs?
>> I think some people want
to hear them called UAP.
I mean, again, it's confusing.
And when you're seeing
people in the media, even
people in government
who still say UFOs,
we won't get lost in
the woods talking about
whether these objects
are really flying
in the traditional sense
of aircraft that we know
and the kinds of
technologies that we
have built here on Earth.
Especially with the introduction
of terms like transmedium,
it seems like we're looking
at technologies that can do
a whole lot more than just fly.
But for my own part, again,
I think the important thing
to never lose sight of is, there
appear to be technologies which
are not easy to place.
We shouldn't leave
with the presumption
that we know what they
are, where they're from.
And whatever terminology
is used by anybody
who discusses this
topic, as long
as we keep in mind
that we're talking
about a major development
in terms of humankind
and our awareness to
perceive our environment,
technologically and otherwise,
and that this phenomenon
is one that is entirely worthy
of scientific attention,
I don't really think it matters
that much what we call it.
>> Well, it's gone completely
into pop culture though.
If you look at Jordan
Peele's new film
"Nope," there is an
actual discussion
in the film about
UFOs and why it is now
UAP and the conversation,
no, I'm staying with UFOs.
And it's that part of
popular culture today.
And I think that the
world looks at UFOs
as being extraterrestrial and
UAP carries another identifier
to it that it may be
something from here.
>> Yeah, somewhat.
Again, if we go all the
way back to the early days
of Project Blue Book, the very
first director, Edward Ruppelt,
he was the first person to use
Unidentified Flying Object.
Why did he do that?
That, of course, was to use
a better identifier, actually
a more ambiguous one,
than flying saucer, which
had come before that, because
not all of these objects
necessarily resemble
disks or saucers.
Some are spheres.
Some are torpedo
or cigar-shaped.
Some are even
stranger than that.
Some of them are just amorphous
kind of blobs of light.
But in any case, Ruppelt
felt we need a better way
to describe these objects.
And we seem to be going through
the same thing all over again.
And I'll tell you if
there's one thing I've
learned about this subject, it's
that history repeats itself.
So here we are all over again.
Now borrowing from Project
Condign in the United Kingdom,
they had preferentially used
Unidentified Aerial Phenomena.
And the US military
following suit,
hoping to, again,
kind of say instead
of these ideas about
spaceships or aircraft,
let's say phenomena
because that's
a broader kind of a catchall
that might cover everything
from natural phenomena, the
potential for surveillance
platforms being used
by Russia or China
or another nation,
maybe even non-nations.
Something along the
lines of some kind
of a experimental project
being cooked up that's
not related to a government.
Then, of course, there are
also those other categories
as were described in the
ODNI report from last year.
We don't know exactly
what all UAP may be
or that they are all
necessarily the same thing.
And I think that's
why the military wants
to go with that term.
But, again, it's
happened before.
And probably a few
decades from now,
they'll have an all-new
term that they use for them.
>> With the hearing that
happened back in May of this
year, 2022, what effect did
that have on disclosure?
And there was so much attention
from the UFO community
that this is a
breakthrough moment.
Did that actually happen?
>> Well, yes and no.
To me, disclosure is
sort of a loaded term.
There's some issues with that.
But I'll tell you this.
The immediate effects that
the Congressional hearing had
were essentially this.
We had a direct interaction
between lawmakers
and military officials.
When Scott Bray and
Ronald Moultrie appear
and they are speaking with
Andre Carson and all the folks
there from the
Intelligence Committee
and they're talking about
this-- at least part of that,
the first hour or so is public,
and we're all able to watch it.
Then there was the
classified session.
But when they're
talking, I mean,
this is probably the clearest
display that the public got
that, wow, OK, our
military, they're
looking at these phenomena.
They're actively trying to
gather information about this.
And we've got
lawmakers in Washington
that are really trying to
get to the bottom of what
the military knows and how
it plans to study this.
So that's one thing.
The second big takeaway
for me was this.
After those hearings,
we've seen a continuation
of this interest from lawmakers
to try and draft legislation.
And, again, with the National
Defense Authorization
Act that's passed every year,
the big defense-spending bill,
we're already seeing
draft language for 2023
that's looking at not only
protections for people
who may have worked
in government
and who actually had served
in special access programs
and things that may have
dealt with UAP protections,
if they come out, and if in a
reasonable sense, if it's not
a danger to national
security for them to do so,
if they come out and
they talk about it,
that may be something that will
be helped to be facilitated
through this bill language.
But we also see
the hope that there
will be means through
which information
can be declassified.
And, again, those aspects of
the phenomena that are studied
and information
gathered about it
that does not conflict with
national security interests
can be, at least to some
extent, conveyed to the public.
Because, again, this is
the big question everybody
wants to know.
Hey, our military
has the best toys.
They may not necessarily always
be actively looking for UAP.
But with the gear that
they've got, they pick it up.
They detect them almost
before anybody else.
So we want to know
what they're finding.
Meanwhile, the
military says, yeah,
but if we give you
all that information,
it's going to tell our enemies
and everybody else out there
a lot about what we have, how it
works, what we can do with it.
They may be able to spoof us.
They may be able to operate
on the same frequencies.
They may be able to
replicate that technology.
So we can't give
you guys this stuff.
And that brings us
back to why I say
disclosure is kind of tricky
because if we spend all
of our time lobbying
for disclosure,
I think that part of the
problem we meet is, hey,
we are going to
have a limitation.
We're always going
to meet a wall when
it comes to how much government
may be able to release
or it will be
willing to release.
They were going to give us some.
We've already seen that
with the ODNI report.
But there were also very
few specifics in that.
So, again, I say one part
of it should be disclosure.
But we've also got to
put emphasis on science.
Really, to me,
Jimmy, the ball is
in the court of the scientists.
We now know that the military
takes this seriously.
Their incredibly
sophisticated capabilities
with their sensory
equipment shows
that there are
apparently phenomena
that are being observed.
Now, the scientific
community may not always
have all the best
toys and toys on par
with what the military uses,
but there's nonetheless
a precedent set by that.
And there are still ways
that with proper funding
and with proper academic
approaches that I think
the scientific
community could really
make some headway with this.
I'm glad to see
people like Avi Loeb
and others are actually
doing that right now.
But it's got to be a
multi-tiered approach.
I don't think it can
all be about disclosure.
>> So we go from UFO.
We're now into the UAP world.
And then you just
talked about legislation
where now a clearer
definition has
been written into the
legislation from UAP
to UAUP where they want
Underwater, this transmedium
aspect, applied to UAP.
So we now have UAUPs.
It's UAPUP.
Is this to confuse the lens and
what we're trying to see here?
And why do this and write
this into legislation?
>> Listen, bottom line, they
need to come and consult with
us before they pick these names.
I mean, we had the
UAP Task Force,
and then we had the Airborne
Object Identification
Management and
Synchronization Group.
Try saying that
three times fast.
>> That's correct.
>> And then they changed
it again to AARO,
which is a little better.
I actually like that one.
But what is it, All-domain
Anomaly Resolution Office?
So now, again, the point
is what the office does.
But there have been times when--
you and I have talked about
this--
I've wondered if the name isn't
intentionally unpronounceable
so that it makes it
more difficult for us
to have these kinds
of conversations.
I mean, good for them, good for
us that we've got guys like you
and I who do
memorize these names.
And we contribute to
that clutter in our minds
by trying to do so.
But, I mean, again, for me,
at the end of the day, that's
why I don't want to get too
hung up on what the names are
that we apply to these things.
Let's recognize the
apparent capabilities.
For instance, with the ODNI
report that we saw last year--
and this is really important.
A lot of people just
glossed over this.
We had this report
published on the website
of the Office of the Director
of National Intelligence--
Preliminary Assessment,
Unidentified Aerial Phenomena.
It groups UAP into
several categories.
And it ranges from
the possibility
of foreign
surveillance platforms
to natural phenomena,
things like this.
But then there's
that other category.
>> Other bin, I
think they called it.
>> The bin, the other bin,
which is a catchall bin.
But if you read what the
report's actually describing--
and this is fascinating
to me-- they're
saying there are some phenomena
that have been observed.
And they appear to possess
technological capabilities that
may require advances in science
and scientific understanding
on our part in order
to fully understand.
They appear to exhibit things
like rapid acceleration,
signature management.
For anyone who doesn't
know what that is,
we're talking about the ability
to electronically lessen
your ability to be detected.
And it's fascinating
that we see technologies
that can't be
identified that seem
to possess these capabilities
and may require a few more
years of scientific
advancement ourselves
before we can identify them.
That's what's going in the other
bin, at least some of what's
going in that bin.
So the report is
describing to me
very anomalous phenomena, which
I think we could call vehicles.
Let's emphasize
what they can do,
what our military has
observed them doing,
and worry a little less
about what we call them.
>> Going back to the hearing,
I think that from the committee
members that they were trying
to keep the conversation to ET,
something off planet
that is visiting here.
But when you looked
at the testimony
that they were receiving
from Bray and Moultrie,
that there was a
military aspect to this
and they were trying to push
it back in that direction.
Where do we sit with this?
Is there a component here that
is ET that we need to address?
Or is the military going to
focus on an adversarial spin
on the UAP issue?
>> That's a really
good question.
I think that, really, we have
to take into consideration
the fact that when we're
talking about the United States
military, they're
always going to want
to look at what is of immediate
concern to the United States
and to national security.
What is a greater concern
to the Pentagon right now?
What China may be capable of,
what Russia may be capable of,
or whether or not there are
extraterrestrial technologies
operating in Earth's air space?
Now, if we've got ET
technology in our atmosphere
and they don't seem to do
anything but just kind of buzz
around, we see them
from time to time.
They aren't firing
lasers or anything.
They aren't causing any
damage to our systems
or our personnel.
But they're up there.
They'll hover up there.
You remember the pilots who
were part of the 2014, 2015
sightings with the USS
Theodore Roosevelt. They
said these objects
would just sit up there
for hours and hours.
Of course, I'm thinking, OK,
what kind of energy source
allows that?
That's interesting.
But if that's all
they do, is that
going to be an immediate
concern to the military?
Probably not when compared with
the modern 21st-century space
race, China trying to
compete with us to get up
into space to build
new space stations,
inviting Russia, of course,
to be a part of all that,
war games in the Pacific.
These are the more
immediate concerns.
Now, I don't think it isn't--
or rather, I wouldn't say that
the military is not concerned
about the prospect of ET.
But, again, whatever
the phenomena
is, without leading
with that presumption
that that's what it may
represent, if it doesn't seem
to show any kind of threat,
if there doesn't seem
to be any obvious
overt threat, it's
always going to be
secondary in terms of what
the government looks for.
And so what I have gleaned
from people I've spoken with,
some in-the-know--
as a journalist,
we speak with a lot of sources.
And I've had the
benefit of speaking
with some who have been
directly associated
with the efforts of
the UAP Task Force.
They've even given me
some interesting insights
about going forward
what AARO will do
and how some of its leadership
perceives this phenomenon.
And it does seem to be very
much that they want to throw out
all the past stuff--
Blue Book and even some of the
studies from more recent years.
They said we want the
stuff with the best data.
We want the cases
that involve the best
technological
signatures that we've
gathered that we
can really study,
we can really learn from,
and that will really
help us to discern what
this phenomenon might be.
We don't care at this point
about trying to hypothesize
what it could be.
Show us the data, and
let's go from there.
But in the event that
they do determine,
I mean, on that outside
chance, hey, we've
got good sensory
capabilities that
have discerned these things
coming from outer space
into our atmosphere, clearly
coming to Earth from someplace
else, I mean, that's
obviously going
to have to-- at some point, it's
going to be a reckoning point.
OK, guys, we're not alone.
So what do we do now?
>> Shouldn't this
information be public?
And let me clarify that.
>> Sure.
>> Just recently, within
the last couple of days,
it was announced
by the Pentagon,
through The Black Vault
and John Greenewald,
that all UAP videos in
possession of the United States
Navy are classified and
will not be made public.
If something is visiting
us from interstellar space
to this planet, shouldn't
that be public knowledge?
And shouldn't we
have access to that?
>> To your immediate question,
I would think so, yeah.
But this brings us back to
that debate about disclosure.
For instance, I think that
disclosure shouldn't happen.
But I try to always be
practical about this.
Is it likely that
our government is
going to tell us
everything that it knows,
everything that it has learned,
everything that we, the people,
feel like we should know
about this phenomenon?
I just don't think
that's very realistic.
And, again, you couldn't
bring up a better point.
When John got this response
to this FOIA the other day,
what it's talking
about is-- again,
he was appealing for all
of these government videos,
any video--
>> That has UAP.
>> Yeah.
And they come back,
and they say, listen,
if we release these
videos, it will
be harmful to the national
security interest of the United
States because of the
information that will
be conveyed with those videos.
The information-- the systems,
of course, how they operate,
what kind of data they collect,
and how they collect it.
Our enemies can't
have that information.
But, again, fundamentally,
Jimmy, at the end of the day,
does the public have
a right to know?
As far as I'm concerned,
if these things
are from outer space--
and we don't know.
But if some UAP do
represent some kind
of a technological advancement
either here from Earth
or from someplace else
with exotic origins,
we do have a right
to know about that.
>> We do have a right to know.
And it also contradicts
the ODNI report
from August of last year, which
clearly stated it's not China,
it's not Russia,
and it's not us.
That was in the report.
So if that's the case, how
can you do a blanket security
classification on all UAP videos
that it's a national security
risk?
They're saying and speaking out
of both sides of their mouth.
>> Well, on the one hand, of
course, what they're saying is,
they want to use the
technologies that might obtain
evidence of UAP.
They want to protect that.
And they don't want
China and Russia
to see sensitive information
that those videos might
contain.
So it's more about protecting
that from foreign adversaries.
But you're right.
In the ODNI report,
they also say
that, based on what
we have observed,
there doesn't seem to be
any kind of indication
that the more exotic-like
technologies, the stranger
phenomena that we would
group in the UAP category,
we haven't seen any
indication that this actually
might be from Russia
or from China,
that they have seen such a
significant technological
advancement that
would place them
maybe decades ahead
of the United States.
We haven't seen
evidence of that.
>> Well, here's the point.
If we go back to 1952, 1953,
Los Alamos and Enrico Fermi
talking with his friends
over lunch saying,
OK, there must be so much life
out there in the universe.
And where is everybody
if that's the case?
Well, is that what's
going on today?
Do you think-- let
me ask you, Josh.
Do you think the
everybody is here
with all of these sightings
and the UAP confirmation that
is going on in the
skies, is that Fermi's
paradox of his paradox
that we are being visited
and they are here?
>> I think the evidence is
overwhelming that some sort
of intelligent life
is visiting us.
Yes, I do think that.
As for Fermi's paradox, I
would say we're past that.
The evidence is here.
>> Exactly.
So is Fermi's paradox
actually a paradox now
in that this is confirmation
of something going on
in the skies?
And could it be that these
extraterrestrial civilizations,
these advanced
civilizations are doing
what they should be doing?
What we are doing--
we're looking at the stars.
We're trying to find life.
If they're advanced and they're
out there building probes
and moving across the
Milky Way that they
found us and they're
just checking us out,
what's wrong with that?
>> Nothing in principle.
We've got to give
props to Enrico Fermi,
the guy who we can
credit for building
the first nuclear reactor.
His paradox was essentially
this-- mathematically,
the universe should
be teeming with life.
I mean, there should be life
from one corner to the next.
And yet with all the
probability that life exists,
we have found no evidence of it.
Now, that was, of course,
what Fermi had said.
And for him, that was a paradox.
If there should be so much
life, why the great silence?
Now, maybe it's a fair question.
Many scientists today
tend to still operate
on the presumption that, well,
Fermi was fundamentally right.
There should be a lot
of life in the universe.
And where is the evidence?
And some astronomers,
physicists, exobiologists,
and others have even gone so far
as to say maybe we are unique.
Maybe there isn't
life out there.
Now, for my own part, I
think there's a lot of life
out there.
I don't think we're all
that good at detecting it.
More fundamentally-- and think
about how strange this would
be--
if indeed UAP do represent
if not actual visitation
by an advanced
civilization, what
if these are autonomous probes
or drones maybe that were
designed a long time ago to
be capable of self-replication
or self-improvement so
that they could come here,
they could continue to operate
for a long time, self-repair
themselves where necessary,
harvest mineral resources
and things from nearby, if not
from Earth, from asteroids,
near-Earth objects
and they were built
to be able to operate
for a long time?
The operators, the
creators of said technology
may be long gone.
The technology may persist.
Could UAP actually
represent something
along the lines of
Von Neumann probes?
Again, this is a
hypothetical kind of probe
that is essentially capable
of self-replication.
I've often thought about that.
And there are three
really interesting kinds
of probes worthy of discussion.
I mean, in addition
to the Von Neumann
replicating probes,
Bracewell probes--
a probe that would be designed
for the express intent
and purpose of communication.
Obviously, we haven't found
evidence of one of those yet.
But here's a good question.
Have we really gone
looking for one?
>> Would we know
what to look for?
>> Would we recognize
it if we found it?
These are all
important questions.
But then the third kind
of probe-- and these
aren't mutually exclusive.
Recently, the idea of a lurker
probe has been discussed a lot.
>> Stop right there.
What is a lurker probe?
Before you start to tell us
about it, it's a new term.
>> Sure.
OK.
A lurker probe would essentially
work in the same way.
But what we may be dealing
with is a probe that
is either difficult to spot.
Again, if it's needle-sized
and it's parked on a near-Earth
object somewhere
out there, not going
to be very easy to
detect it, especially
if we don't know to
go looking for it
or haven't even
tried to find one.
The other alternative-- and
this is an interesting one too--
is what if a lurker
probe were designed
to operate without being seen.
Now, again, I'm a nature lover.
When I go out into the forest,
I don't put on all hot pink
and take a pair of bongos
and start beating the drum
and try to call
all the animals in.
No, what I do is, I put on my--
>> You don't want to
attract attention.
>> I put on camo.
I get up against or even up in
a tree, get my camera ready,
and I'm quiet.
It's using the art of stealth.
And there may be reasons,
good ones, in fact,
considering our
nuclear proliferation
and other problems of the
20th and 21st century.
There may be very
good reasons why
a hypothetical extraterrestrial
civilization would not directly
want to engage with us or
to announce their presence.
And yet, often we hear
scientists kind of--
what was it Stanton
Friedman used to say?
Science by proclamation?
You hear these kinds of
proclamations all the time.
If we were being visited,
we would know it.
If an extraterrestrial
spacecraft came to Earth,
we'd know it.
>> Well, if we flip that
around, if we've been observed
for 1,000 years by an ETC, they
would know that we have one
thing built into our DNA.
We shoot first and
ask questions later.
>> That's right.
>> They would know us to have
that part of our character
there.
And that's what we would do.
We would shoot first.
>> You look at our
warlike tendencies.
And, again, all
of this is fairly
anthropomorphic or
anthropocentric, I guess.
We are humans.
We think like humans.
We should always be careful
about projecting our ideals
onto any hypothetical ETs.
But we're all we've
got to work with.
So for here and now,
let's just roll with it.
So we are warlike.
We're not really
historically known
for being kind to one another,
for treating each other
as equals, for respecting
each other's boundaries
and land and space and culture
and all of our differences.
We've got our wonderful
atomic weapon.
We've got our pandemics
that have occurred.
We've got all of the cultural
unrest that's occurred just
in the last few years.
If I were ET, the last
thing I want to do
is drop down on the White
House lawn and say hi.
And yet again, this is
another one of those tropes
that I hear modern scientists,
many of whom I really respect--
but they'll say
things like this.
We would know it if an
ET spacecraft arrived.
Why would they come
all this distance
and not introduce themselves?
Look, I can give you
all kinds of lists.
We can spend all day
talking about that.
Point being, if we're
talking about a lurker probe,
there are some very good
reasons why a hypothetical ET
technology might not be
designed to be easily spotted.
Now, just really quickly, let's
tie that in with UAP again.
If we back to the ODNI report,
one of the interesting things
that they observed that I
mentioned earlier-- and this
is why I always point
this out because I
think it's significant--
signature management.
We talk about low observability
described with relation
to certain UAP.
I'm not making an explicit
connection between UAP
and the idea of Von
Neumann or lurker probes.
But there is a consistency
in the idea of how
one hypothetically
would operate and things
we observe about UAP,
which could be significant.
And that's one reason
I think, Jimmy,
as we move toward trying to
get science applied toward UAP
and more scientists involved
in the study of them,
I think it's going to be
helpful to start phrasing
the discussion of UAP
in terms of things
like Von Neumann probes, lurker
probes, Bracewell probes,
the ideas of what
scientists have
gone looking for through the
CETI program and what have you.
But we need to extend
that to UAP too.
Do we start seeing
patterns that we
might expect from an
intelligent civilization?
Should we be looking
for certain things
out there that we
haven't looked for?
Should we get more creative
about what we might find?
Think about this.
As I mentioned, if the
creators of the technology
are no longer
around, we're getting
into the realm of
extraterrestrial archeology,
which fascinates me.
If a probe is no longer in
service, does that mean--
for instance, if it completed
its mission millions, maybe
even billions of years
ago, but it's still
laying up there somewhere buried
in the regolith on the lunar
surface, if we discover
it, we haven't just
found old alien junk.
We have proven the existence of
extraterrestrial intelligence.
Now, it may be long gone.
But we've answered the
question nonetheless.
No, we're not alone.
No, we aren't the only ones.
And if life existed at least
once before, maybe a long time
ago somewhere out there,
it could exist again.
And that just, to me,
really emboldens our search.
It really kind of gives us
more reason to go out there
and to continue looking
for other life like us.
>> To that end, Josh,
pull up this picture,
this image of the Tic Tac.
And I want to get
your opinion on this.
And then I'm going to turn this
over to Micah for a second.
When we look at this, Josh,
does that look offensive to you?
Would you be scared of that?
>> It depends how close I was.
No.
In this picture, no.
The stories of the Tic Tacs
we hear about, no, not to me.
But the fighter pilots,
different story.
>> And that's exactly
my point here.
That if you are going to have
something collect data and come
here, you would do
a couple of things.
One, you wouldn't be scary.
That would be the first thing.
The second thing is, you
would want to avoid problems.
It's a dumb AI that
is built into it.
But if you encounter
something that
might be a little bit offensive,
you're going to avoid it.
Now, we have F-18s come
on site and observe this,
and what does it do?
It runs away.
And it's seen.
It's observed.
It now knows that it is
seen, and it takes off.
Josh, doesn't that
make sense to you?
You wouldn't want to stick
around and get shot at or have
issues.
Wouldn't you just fly
away and avoid problems?
>> Yes, I agree with you.
Yeah.
It looks like they're actively
trying to make it easier
for us to accept them.
>> So doesn't this
fit your definition?
>> Well, OK.
So to that point, they
have an appearance
that might be easily accepted.
Maybe non-confrontational
would be another term.
Maybe even easily overlooked.
By the way, this is not a
photograph of a Tic Tac.
This is a digital representation
that I made myself
so that we would have a talking
point because, again, this
is pretty close to the
description given by Commander
Dave Fravor and pilot
Alex Dietrich who
observed this object in 2004.
I know if I saw that,
probably, the first question
I would have is, is that
a balloon down there?
What am I looking at?
Maybe intent to confuse
even is part of it.
But in terms of
its behavior, yeah,
this thing doesn't
want to stick around
and say, hi, we come in peace.
No, it's gone.
>> There was a comment.
And I want to thank you.
This has been a
great conversation.
But in closing, I
wanted to ask you this.
There was a comment at
the UFO House hearing.
And one of the
representatives said,
we need to act on media outlets
out there that are possibly
spreading misinformation and
disinformation on this subject
and almost suggesting
criminalizing
reporting about UAPs.
And I think it was a
direct reference at people
like yourself and like the
work that I have been doing
and we have been doing
that we aren't entitled
to comment on the phenomenon
and it needs to be handled
through other official means.
Did you take offense to that?
And shouldn't we have freedom of
the press and freedom of speech
and be able to comment
on the phenomenon?
>> Look, freedom
of speech, I mean,
there's simply no
question about that.
That is a must, all right?
That is an integral
part of our society.
And yes, also the role
of the fourth estate
to be able to hold
officials accountable.
Look, let's not forget
that it's we, the people.
We pay the taxes,
which pay their bills.
So for my own part, that
gets into shaky territory.
I didn't take offense at
it, to answer your question.
I didn't perceive
it as necessarily
being directed at journalists.
But I think that it
was an open statement
about the possible
implementation of--
this is a strong
word, but I'll use
it-- penalties for someone who
would misrepresent information
that might thereafter
be passed along
to the government
in their efforts
to try and get to the bottom
of what UAP may represent.
Although I understand
that, we need
to be very careful when it
comes to having discussions
about who should be
able to talk about this.
Right now we don't
know what UAP are.
There are no UAP experts.
I've got news for you.
I may know a lot
about this subject,
but we don't know what they are.
We don't know
where they're from.
The military doesn't
know what they are.
If we've got a subject that
perplexes humans that much,
it's not really
right for anybody
to call themself an
expert and, therefore--
>> Which includes
the government.
So right now, as far
as I'm concerned,
it's difficult to
really say, well,
who should have
more qualifications?
Who has the expertise?
Now, I will say this.
As we're closing out here, I'm
very excited about the fact
that NASA is going
to be conducting
its own independent
study because NASA has,
as a government
agency, a tradition
behind it of openness
and transparency.
Thomas Zurbuchen and
others, they've said,
look, this report,
once it's complete,
we're going to make it
available to the public
and let you guys
read it and decide.
I hope that happens.
And whatever they
find, I hope that this
will be another stepping stone
toward a broader discussion
to be had about this.
And rather than
talking about penalties
for people who
misrepresent it, I say,
look, how can we all get
on the same page about how
to best represent this?
Again, going back to
what I said earlier,
this phenomenon is bigger
than all of us potentially.
We effectively are stewards.
And one day, we may look back
and think, can you imagine back
in the day, back
when we weren't sure
what UAP were and some
people didn't even
believe they were real?
That may sound
absurd, but, I mean,
guys, I mean, as recently as
a couple of centuries ago,
we didn't know that
stones fell from space,
entered Earth's atmosphere.
We didn't know that there were
potentially deadly pathogens
that could be spread
invisibly in our environment.
People didn't wash
their hands because they
didn't believe that.
If we look at the
history of science,
we have all the reason to be
moving forward very seriously
with the UAP subject.
But let's have an open dialogue.
I think we, the people,
deserve that, right?
>> We do.
And I agree with you.
NASA's administrator Bill
Nelson has been very public
lately about this subject, about
ET, about life in the universe,
and what may or may not
be visiting us right now,
and they want to focus on that.
I think he's very genuine
in his statements.
And he's gone public
and stated those.
Micah Hanks, thank you so much.
>> Jimmy Church,
always a pleasure.
>> You're the best.
"Into the Vortex."
I'm your host, Jimmy
Church, and along with Josh,
we'll see you guys next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]